Mikhail Kalinin: Hello, everyone. Can you hear me?
Boma: Hello?
Roberto Saltini: Aye. Aye.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, let's wait for… 3 to 4 more minutes and get started.
Mikhail Kalinin: Pain Azar…
Mikhail Kalinin: Hi, Nico.
Nico Flaig: Hey…
Mikhail Kalinin: Alright, so let's move ahead and get started.
Mikhail Kalinin: Let me just drop the agenda.
Mikhail Kalinin: So, today, I think, will be quick.
Mikhail Kalinin: And we will start with, client updates.
Mikhail Kalinin: Does anyone want to go first?
Nazar Hussain: I can go. Can you guys in?
Mikhail Kalinin: Sure, please.
Nazar Hussain: Yeah, from my upside, like,
Nazar Hussain: We have deployed our task information in our Test fleet and in RC.
Nazar Hussain: And, working fine so far.
Nazar Hussain: And, hopefully in, coming release, around this week or start of next week.
Nazar Hussain: We will include into the public release, and we'll also publish a blog post about it.
Nazar Hussain: And, related to the metrics we are for fast information.
Nazar Hussain: I have reviewed and approved it, but
Nazar Hussain: I will integrate those matrices in those charts, during this phase.
Nazar Hussain: But that falls from my side.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, so, will these metrics be in the release as well?
Nazar Hussain: I'm very confident that there will be.
Nazar Hussain: Because I'm just working right now on this metric PR.
Nico Flaig: Wait, wait, Nasa. No, no. Like, we wanted to cut the release today, right?
Nico Flaig: Like, literally in a few hours.
Nazar Hussain: That's thrillers.
Nico Flaig: But if we want them in the release, I think we can maybe sneak in a last-minute commit in the RC, like, do another RC.
Nazar Hussain: But I think it's… it's fine. We can…
Nazar Hussain: have a PR, and then test it on our fleet of
Nazar Hussain: And can include into the upcoming release pipelines.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, I think, it's… it's up to you guys, but I think it's,
Mikhail Kalinin: Not super urgent to have them, those metrics, in the release.
Mikhail Kalinin: But, I mean, like, if it will be in the next release, I think it's fine.
Mikhail Kalinin: Because, like.
Mikhail Kalinin: if one wants to run… to measure those… to get… collect those metrics, on Lodestar, can it just run the master version of it?
Mikhail Kalinin: Like, the build from the most recent master branch.
Nico Flaig: Yeah, they could just run that,
Nico Flaig: Yeah, maybe if Nassar is fast, we can sneak it in.
Nazar Hussain: Yeah, we will discuss it, async.
Nazar Hussain: But even if we don't include it, I think it's not urgent, and once the PR is going through the review process and merged.
Nazar Hussain: Anyone can… Build it from the master branch.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, because I, I just think that, releasing fast confirmation, like…
Mikhail Kalinin: Without metrics, and without delaying it is more important, you know, than delayed because of the metrics.
Nazar Hussain: That's true.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, great, congratulations, that's great progress.
Mikhail Kalinin: Cool.
Mikhail Kalinin: Do you… do you see any, like, any…
Mikhail Kalinin: Unusual behavior, like reversions to finality or reorgs.
Mikhail Kalinin: Of the confirmed block on your… on your node you're running.
Nazar Hussain: When Nico observed one behavior, So…
Nazar Hussain: I think it was after restarting, the node was… The first confirmed block was…
Nazar Hussain: Delayed for some time, but after
Nazar Hussain: Two epoch 6K accounts, and then afterward, it was just one slot demand.
Nazar Hussain: Okay. This was the observation, we haven't yet…
Nazar Hussain: Diagnosed it, properly, for the reason, but that was one observation.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, I see, but yeah, that might be fine, because if you just started a node,
Nazar Hussain: And…
Mikhail Kalinin: There is, like… Reason all fork choice information, so fork choice store is not yet.
Nazar Hussain: yet?
Mikhail Kalinin: Caught up with the head.
Mikhail Kalinin: It will likely be a two epochs delay, because first you have to, to…
Mikhail Kalinin: To finish the first epoch, the end of the first epoch, to capture the…
Mikhail Kalinin: Greatest and realized justified checkpoint you will start from.
Mikhail Kalinin: And then in the next epoch, you can search from it, if it meets other conditions.
Mikhail Kalinin: I mean, like, if it's, like, from…
Mikhail Kalinin: From the most recent epoch, from the,
Mikhail Kalinin: On the previous epoch, to be more specific. So, probably two epoch delay is fine.
Nazar Hussain: Yeah, once we have these, metrics, then we will have better observability.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yep.
Nico Flaig: Yeah, but it's not even to epochs, so what happens is the node boots up, it swings to head, and then for, like, 10 or 15 slots, it… the fast confirmation, or the confirmed route, stays at the finalized block.
Nico Flaig: And then there's a jump from the finalized to usually the current slot minus 1.
Nico Flaig: Yeah, I didn't observe any reversion yet.
Nico Flaig: But, yeah, we didn't, like, we probably should hook up a node and continuously monitor this. Or probably, yeah, getting the metrics is the right way to measure this.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, yeah, probably. I mean, like, metrics are, you know…
Mikhail Kalinin: designed for this case as well, like, to… to measure any reversions. To get an idea how much… how many reversions happens, if at all.
Nazar Hussain: Okay.
Mikhail Kalinin: Great,
Mikhail Kalinin: So next, to Grandine.
Boma: Okay, hello, good afternoon. So…
Boma: I did make some changes on the, the metrics, and then the correction we had, we talked about the last time we checked in.
Boma: And then, the only thing is, I'm waiting for review from the maintainers. I'm here to get a proper review from them and move forward with the PR, so…
Boma: that is also something I will be needing help with, because I don't really know how to…
Boma: poke them around on getting the necessary review I need, and then also, like, deploying that and more.
Boma: monitoring day.
Boma: The implementation and all of that, so that's all from my own end.
Mikhail Kalinin: Gracie, could you please repeat, what do you need help with?
Boma: So, I've made the necessary, all the new metrics implementation and all of that, so I need, the maintainers to review it. The only person that is…
Boma: kind of, like, reviewing the PR is at-up, and he doesn't like… he can't merge a PR or approve it on, Grandine. Although he works for Grinding, but he said the merging has to come from,
Boma: Samas, or the other person, I can't record the name, so…
Boma: I don't really have access to, like, push them to reviewing the PR properly, because they have, like, a lot of things they are doing with EPBS and then other, glamster, work going on, so…
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, I see, I see. So it's… it's about priorities, right? It's more about.
Boma: Okay.
Mikhail Kalinin: Okay. Yeah. Yeah.
Mikhail Kalinin: Alright, I see,
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, thanks for… thanks for your update. If you need any help from… from our side, just please let us know.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, thanks, Nico. Yeah, that's great to know.
Mikhail Kalinin: Are there any other clients' updates?
Mikhail Kalinin: If not, I have… I can provide some, from, from, Lighthouse.
Mikhail Kalinin: We have been recently looking into Likely a regression.
Mikhail Kalinin: In their code, there are some reversions.
Mikhail Kalinin: to finality. This is why I was asking you guys as well, do you observe anything like that or not?
Mikhail Kalinin: But, with the previous version of Lighthouse, there were… there was no such issue, so this is, like, we're investigating.
Mikhail Kalinin: If it's a regression, and…
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, it will likely need to…
Mikhail Kalinin: We will likely need to write a test to cover this case. Obviously, we don't have a test for the case that Lighthouse is experiencing right now, so…
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah.
Mikhail Kalinin: Alright.
Mikhail Kalinin: The spec and testing updates are next. So… There are no spec updates.
Mikhail Kalinin: Since the last time, so the spec is pretty stable.
Mikhail Kalinin: is good. Tests, testing. So there is a PR,
Mikhail Kalinin: That enables tests for loss and hazard, and also this PR disables PLS.
Mikhail Kalinin: It's kind of, like, dude… Yeah, the outcome is twofold, for disabling PBS, AP,
Mikhail Kalinin: BLS, sorry. So the first is that it just becomes a bit faster to run those tests.
Mikhail Kalinin: On the spec.
Mikhail Kalinin: And the other one is that the shuffling becomes stable, which means it's not only stable.
Mikhail Kalinin: Across different validator sets.
Mikhail Kalinin: at Genesis, but also across different forks, which is good, because some of those tests are shuffling dependent.
Mikhail Kalinin: Specifically, there are cases where you have a validator vote in a support of a block, in the last slot of current epoch, and in the first slot of the next epoch, and this validator
Mikhail Kalinin: Does not… contribute to… like…
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, it's not a new value, so if we have this, the support is kind of, like, a bit lower than in the case where these two committees are disjointed completely.
Mikhail Kalinin: So, yeah, this is one of the cases.
Mikhail Kalinin: To give an idea why it's shot independent.
Mikhail Kalinin: So, like, yeah, disabling BLS gives us stable shuffling.
Mikhail Kalinin: And makes those tests deterministic across forks, which is good. Also, on the testing of the… on the other side of testing.
Mikhail Kalinin: Update is… I'm kind of working on… Like, edge case tests.
Mikhail Kalinin: And, planning to open APR soon.
Mikhail Kalinin: Like, maybe tomorrow?
Mikhail Kalinin: There are a couple of tests to… yeah, to be written, and
Mikhail Kalinin: After that, we can consider that, you know.
Mikhail Kalinin: The task work is completely done for… for the false confirmation rule.
Mikhail Kalinin: We could do buzzing and other things, but that's out of the scope of the initial testing suit.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, that's for, for tests, API and metrics.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, any question with testing or anything to add here?
Mikhail Kalinin: Alright, API and metrics, so… I believe that… The PR…
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, so… let me check.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, this PR by Nazar has been merged, been merged. Thanks, everyone, for… thanks, Nazar, for working on it.
Mikhail Kalinin: So it basically add current slot.
Mikhail Kalinin: To, to the, event stream.
Mikhail Kalinin: Which is… I think it's quite useful.
Mikhail Kalinin: Also, you've all seen these metrics. PR, thanks for taking a look, and thanks for approval. I, I will…
Mikhail Kalinin: Does anyone know whom to reach out to merge this one?
Mikhail Kalinin: To ask to merge this one, basically.
Nico Flaig: I think it's Panda, or someone.
Mikhail Kalinin: Okay, cool.
Nico Flaig: maybe Perry Barnabas, or something.
Mikhail Kalinin: Alright, cool.
Mikhail Kalinin: Then I'll just reach out to them.
Mikhail Kalinin: In order to get this one merged.
Mikhail Kalinin: Alright, so… things that solve for API metrics.
Mikhail Kalinin: As well.
Mikhail Kalinin: And… The last, but not least, research updates.
Mikhail Kalinin: Roberto, do you want to?
Roberto Saltini: Yeah, not much from the 8th, we… Likely.
Roberto Saltini: I released the paper this week,
Roberto Saltini: To be honest, not much work was done over the past,
Roberto Saltini: Four weeks, and we've been busy with…
Roberto Saltini: Mainly fast finality and other projects.
Roberto Saltini: But, I'm back to it this week, so I don't see any particular blocker from publishing this week.
Roberto Saltini: That's all.
Mikhail Kalinin: Cool. Thanks, Roberto.
Mikhail Kalinin: All right, is anything else we want to discuss today?
Nico Flaig: Yeah, just worth noting, so we do have this metric already, maybe Nassar can correct me if this is what we measure, but we have this metric that tracks the resets total. It's currently a load star internal metric, but it should mirror what you have on the Beacon AP, the beacon metrics.
Nico Flaig: And on my note, at least, I see in the last 7 days, there were 3 resets.
Nico Flaig: Total.
Mikhail Kalinin: Hmm.
Nico Flaig: I'm not sure if that's, I have not digged into it at all, why that is the case, but…
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah.
Nico Flaig: So it should match the fast confirmation underscore restarts total, I think. Should be the same metric.
Nico Flaig: I think that's the one you're looking for, right?
Nazar Hussain: That's correct.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, does it count the initial start as well?
Nazar Hussain: No, it doesn't.
Mikhail Kalinin: Hmm.
Mikhail Kalinin: So there are 3 restarts, as you said.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yo.
Mikhail Kalinin: It would be great to investigate what caused the fallback to finality and then restart.
Nico Flaig: Yeah, I think our metric is not great, also, it's just, counter that goes up.
Nico Flaig: So if this happens at startup, it could be that it already increments it by 1, and then we just keep it at 1.
Nico Flaig: So it doesn't… like, if I change the rate in the wild to, like.
Nico Flaig: higher, like 7 days, and then the startup happened at… at 8 days ago, I think it would still measure that.
Nico Flaig: We need to check how we display this.
Nico Flaig: But yeah, I didn't restart my node in the last, 5 days.
Nico Flaig: But it shows that there are definitely two more resets.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, I see.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah.
Mikhail Kalinin: It might be useful to have, you know, some…
Mikhail Kalinin: More debugged information for these cases.
Mikhail Kalinin: Just for us to dig into that.
Nazar Hussain: Yeah, I'll check and investigate a little bit.
Nazar Hussain: There's something, like, related to the special word shape, and I will say everything.
Mikhail Kalinin: Cool, thank you.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, mercy.
Boma: Yeah, so I don't know if this is far-fetched, but I wanted to ask, do we, like.
Boma: how do we, sort of, run different clients' implementation of FCR to actually, like.
Boma: See if we can get these edge cases out.
Boma: I'm not sure if my question is.
Mikhail Kalinin: So, yeah, sorry, could you rephrase, please?
Boma: So, I'm saying…
Boma: is there, like, a resource for, like, who can get from, its founder Ops to, like, run all the client implementation of, FCR for, like, a longer time, and then see how…
Boma: if similar age cases can, like, suffice, or if the… for example, what Nico is saying, if it's similar to Grandine, or something else is happening, to be able to identify all these…
Boma: cases.
Mikhail Kalinin: Oh, yeah, I see.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, you mean, like, on the historical data, or just in a, you know… in the,
Mikhail Kalinin: in the runtime.
Boma: Yeah, on runtime, like, for us to, like, run it longer on a server or something to monitor, because.
Mikhail Kalinin: Sorry, can't hear you.
Mikhail Kalinin: You're talking?
Boma: Okay, sorry, I was saying, if we can, like, have a server to run all this implementation on a server…
Boma: I don't know what I'm saying, like, intense.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, I… I think, yeah, I need to talk to expand the ops about that, probably.
Nico Flaig: There would be another thing, which I'm not sure is necessary, but, so they also have the contributor tool, which you can run as a sidecar.
Nico Flaig: Which is then, used by them to measure, like, block arrival times,
Nico Flaig: From, like, different parts of the world, basically.
Nico Flaig: I'm not sure if that's…
Nico Flaig: relevant. I guess you could see if nodes outside of the network, like, further out at the edge of the network, emit FCR later, I guess? I'm not sure if that's that relevant, but…
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, I see.
Boma: I don't… I don't know about this who you're talking about, can you share the link?
Nico Flaig: You mean, like, the Panda Ops? How do they call it?
Nico Flaig: Yeah, let me find the link around…
Mikhail Kalinin: I think we can ask around the hopes also to, to do another… Comparison test between clients.
Mikhail Kalinin: between client implementations.
Mikhail Kalinin: To be fed with, literally the same data.
Mikhail Kalinin: each client.
Mikhail Kalinin: Something that they did before her.
Nico Flaig: Yeah, so I shared the website, I meant.
Nico Flaig: But it's only, like, they measure only the data based on SSE events that clients emit?
Mikhail Kalinin: Oh, okay.
Mikhail Kalinin: Interesting.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, we'll just investigate in that.
Mikhail Kalinin: All right Is anything else?
Mikhail Kalinin: for today.
Roberto Saltini: Yeah, I wanted to ask one question about APIs. I…
Roberto Saltini: What was the actual decision about the tax for the EL?
Roberto Saltini: side, in terms of safe and don't recall what was decided.
Mikhail Kalinin: We decided to use SAFE.
Mikhail Kalinin: And we also, decided to reach out to infrastructure, to RPC providers.
Mikhail Kalinin: And ask them if anyone If anyone relies on the safe today.
Mikhail Kalinin: And their users.
Roberto Saltini: Okay.
Roberto Saltini: And have we reached out to them?
Mikhail Kalinin: No, I'm not sure, but dude.
Roberto Saltini: Okay.
Mikhail Kalinin: I don't think so.
Mikhail Kalinin: But, yeah.
Roberto Saltini: Okay, okay, so…
Mikhail Kalinin: But we haven't, haven't received any, like, we haven't heard that anyone uses it.
Mikhail Kalinin: Before.
Roberto Saltini: Okay.
Mikhail Kalinin: Do you think Yeah, do you think it's important to do… to beat on Roberto?
Roberto Saltini: I don't know, like, I… It's like, it's like a sort of insurance, in a way, like, you…
Roberto Saltini: Like, we don't know if there are cases where this can… it's unlikely.
Roberto Saltini: Very unlikely, I think, that this… and cozy ships.
Roberto Saltini: I guess the problem is that we'll need And half work, right?
Roberto Saltini: If we're going to introduce a new tag.
Roberto Saltini: That'd be correct?
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, that's true. That's likely the case.
Mikhail Kalinin: We…
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, to be… formally, we don't need the hard work to make the engine API, change, but… I…
Mikhail Kalinin: I doubt that.
Mikhail Kalinin: I doubt that, actually.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, probably in this case, we would need this, yeah, we would need some coordination to… Hmm.
Mikhail Kalinin: doing CL and DL as well.
Mikhail Kalinin: Because if you introduce a new one, it means that CL as well will have to
Mikhail Kalinin: Just send something like Fast Confirm.
Mikhail Kalinin: Hash, or whatever.
Mikhail Kalinin: aside to.
Roberto Saltini: Excuse me.
Mikhail Kalinin: cash.
Roberto Saltini: Yeah. These can be…
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, and this can be done only if EL supports, so this EL will just basically wait for EL to support this.
Mikhail Kalinin: This new data.
Mikhail Kalinin: Hmm. And…
Roberto Saltini: So there is quite a bit of… work on top of Glamsterdam.
Roberto Saltini: Absolutely.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yes, yes, so… I would… yeah, really, I think it would be hard to, you know, to…
Mikhail Kalinin: to do this before Glamsterdam, honestly.
Mikhail Kalinin: Right.
Mikhail Kalinin: I'll try to figure out something, about the usage.
Roberto Saltini: Yeah.
Mikhail Kalinin: save block.
Mikhail Kalinin: Oh, okay.
Roberto Saltini: Okay.
Mikhail Kalinin: Right, thanks, everyone.
Mikhail Kalinin: And we'll see each other in a couple of clicks.
Roberto Saltini: Oops. But…
Mikhail Kalinin: Bye.
Nico Flaig: See ya.
Roberto Saltini: Thank you, Kurt.